.. include:: global.rst


ESP8266-based Controllers
=============================

Fermentrack was explicitly built to support ESP8266-based controllers regardless of connection method (WiFi or Serial).

For more information on ESP8266-based firmware, please refer to one of the following:

* `BrewPi-ESP8266 GitHub`_
* `BrewPi-ESP8266 HomeBrewTalk Thread`_


If connecting an ESP8266-based controller via serial, please note that by default Fermentrack will detect the USB serial
number associated with your Arduino when initially configured, and will use that - instead of the specified serial port -
to connect. For more information, read the "About Serial Port Autodetection" note in the
["Guided Setup" instructions](../config/BrewPi Controller Setup.md#setting-up-a-serial-connected-controller).


## Setting Up an ESP8266-based Controller in Fermentrack

There are two options for setting up a controller in Fermentrack - Guided Setup and Advanced (Manual) Setup.

[**Guided Setup - WiFi**](../config/BrewPi Controller Setup.md#setting-up-a-wifi-connected-controller) - Instructions are available [here](../config/BrewPi Controller Setup.md#setting-up-a-wifi-connected-controller). When choosing the board type, select "ESP8266" from the dropdown.

[**Guided Setup - Serial**](../config/BrewPi Controller Setup.md#setting-up-a-serial-connected-controller) - Instructions are available [here](../config/BrewPi Controller Setup.md#setting-up-a-serial-connected-controller). When choosing the board type, select "ESP8266" from the dropdown.

[**Manual Setup**](../config/Advanced Controller Setup.md) - Instructions are available [here](../config/Advanced Controller Setup.md).
